Documentation/hwmon/oxp-sensors.rst, before:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later

Kernel driver oxp-sensors
=========================

Author:
    - Joaquín Ignacio Aramendía <samsagax@gmail.com>

Description:
------------

One X Player devices from One Netbook provide fan readings and fan control
through its Embedded Controller.

Currently only supports AMD boards from the One X Player and AOK ZOE lineup.
Intel boards could be supported if we could figure out the EC registers and
values to write to since the EC layout and model is different.

Supported devices
-----------------

Currently the driver supports the following handhelds:

 - AOK ZOE A1
 - OneXPlayer AMD
 - OneXPlayer mini AMD
 - OneXPlayer mini AMD PRO

Sysfs entries
-------------

The following attributes are supported:

fan1_input
  Read Only. Reads current fan RMP.

pwm1_enable
  Read Write. Enable manual fan control. Write "1" to set to manual, write "0"
  to let the EC control de fan speed. Read this attribute to see current status.

pwm1
  Read Write. Read this attribute to see current duty cycle in the range [0-255].
  When pwm1_enable is set to "1" (manual) write any value in the range [0-255]
  to set fan speed.

Commit message:

hwmon: (oxp-sensors) Add AYANEO AIR and AIR Pro
Add support for the AYANEO AIR and AYANEO AIR Pro models of handheld
devices. These devices use the same EC registers and logic as the One X
Player mini AMD. Previous AYANEO models are not supported as they use a
different EC and do not have the necessary fan speed write enable and
setting registers. The driver is tested on AYANEO AIR while AIR Pro model
EC functionality and DMI data were verified using command line tools by
another user.

Add:
- AYANEO AIR (AMD 5560U)
- AYANEO AIR Pro (AMD 5560U)
- AYANEO AIR Pro (AMD 5825U)

While at it, fix spelling error (appart -> apart).

Link: https://lore.kernel.org/r/20221229025609.147482-1-derekjohn.clark@gmail.com
Signed-off-by: Derek J. Clark <derekjohn.clark@gmail.com>
[groeck: Sanitize commit description]
Signed-off-by: Guenter Roeck <linux@roeck-us.net>

Documentation/hwmon/oxp-sensors.rst, after:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later

Kernel driver oxp-sensors
=========================

Authors:
    - Derek John Clark <derekjohn.clark@gmail.com>
    - Joaquín Ignacio Aramendía <samsagax@gmail.com>

Description:
------------

Handheld devices from One Netbook and Aya Neo provide fan readings and fan
control through their embedded controllers.

Currently only supports AMD boards from One X Player, AOK ZOE, and some Aya
Neo devices. One X Player Intel boards could be supported if we could figure
out the EC registers and values to write to since the EC layout and model is
different. Aya Neo devices preceding the AIR may not be supportable as the EC
model is different and do not appear to have manual control capabilities.

Supported devices
-----------------

Currently the driver supports the following handhelds:

 - AOK ZOE A1
 - Aya Neo AIR
 - Aya Neo AIR Pro
 - OneXPlayer AMD
 - OneXPlayer mini AMD
 - OneXPlayer mini AMD PRO

Sysfs entries
-------------

The following attributes are supported:

fan1_input
  Read Only. Reads current fan RMP.

pwm1_enable
  Read Write. Enable manual fan control. Write "1" to set to manual, write "0"
  to let the EC control de fan speed. Read this attribute to see current status.

pwm1
  Read Write. Read this attribute to see current duty cycle in the range [0-255].
  When pwm1_enable is set to "1" (manual) write any value in the range [0-255]
  to set fan speed.
